
# Creative Incubation 2020-02-29

Went to Dice Tower West 2020 to play a ton of games with Eric and his
friends. Unfortunately, I was half sick the whole time and due to
Covid-19, a lot of Eric's friends canceled.

One thing to say about the convention: it blows PAX out of the
water. The library was ridiculously huge and well sorted so it was
trivial to find a game. It had classic games, unreleased games, and
hard to find games. E.g. Nemesis is out of print and costs $500 on
ebay but there were four copies available.

I was sick during the Con so I didn't get to play as many games as I
should have.

## Wednesday

### [War of Whispers](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/253499/war-whispers)

This is a 4X game where instead of controlling the empires, you have
random bets on the empires and indirect control of all battles. It was
pretty fun, very fast, and the asymmetry of the empires makes for a
huge amount of fun.

There were several times where players took actions to make one or two
empires devastate another empire. In a normal game this would clearly
be a political/hate mechanic but it didn't feel like it in this game
since players have the ability to change their bets (at some cost to
themselves). The whole play of this game felt very unique.

The game comes in two versions: one with basic bits and one with
enhanced bits. I think getting the enhanced version is required.

We all wanted to play this again before the end of the con but didn't
get a chance.

I'll be buying this game.

### [Sushi Roll](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/271869/sushi-roll)

I never played Sushi Go which is the parent of this game. You
roll dice and then draft the dice for points as well as extra
actions. The game has a semi-hate mechanic where you can exchange dice
with an arbitrary person which was a turn-off for our group.

It's not a bad game but not exceptional. I think drafting dice is
significantly more cumbersome than drafting cards. Also, since the
dice are public, it removes one of the best aspects of secret card
drafting: simultaneous play.

### [New Frontiers](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/255692/new-frontiers)

I can't believe they made yet another version of Race for the
Galaxy. This game is good and I would play it if someone wanted to,
but I don't see why it needs to exist. We have two other games that
are just like it.

Some differences in this version:

1. All developments are visible and can be bought at any time. This includes the powerful 6 cost developments.
1. Worlds can be easily searched for and placed, ready to be built, on the tableau. There is no commitment to building these planets so they can be replaced with others until they are built.
1. Phases are not chosen simultaneously. Each player takes a turn to choose a phase followed by all other players.

I think (1) and (2) make the game friendlier to inexperienced players
but have the side effect that it's really easy to get the super
powerful combinations. The game we played and the other game I watched
were easily won by the player who did a dominant military strategy. In
Race or Roll, getting all of these synergistic worlds/devs out would
have been exceedingly difficult.

A criticism of Race and Roll is that the shipping strategy is much
more difficult than the building strategy. Often, if two people setup
a shipping tech tree, they can be frustrated by both playing produce
or both playing ship simultaneously when they would have been better
served by having one produce and one ship. The designers claim that
this is not a problem since a good player will never do all building
or all shipping but will do a little of one and leach off the other
but that doesn't help if you are a novice player. With the new game,
phases are chosen sequentially so it is very easy for the first player
to choose produce, giving the second player the opportunity to ship.

I think it's worth saying that my criticism of the game was the lone
negative voice in the group that was playing. Everyone else in the
group, both novices and seasoned players, preferred this game to both
Race and Roll.

### [It's a Wonderful World](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/271324/its-wonderful-world)

This is another tight drafting game, probably most similar to Seven
Wonders. The difference is that cards produce resources that allow you
to build huge cards over multiple turns. It is an engine building game
that is easy to be left behind but the game plays quickly so that is
not much of a problem.

I loved the theme/art (future, dystopian, 1984 world) but was alone in
this opinion.

I don't think anyone was blown away buy the mechanics of the game. I'd
give this a below average rating as, I not only wouldn't buy it but
would probably not play it again if someone threw it on the table.

## Thursday

### [Hall of the Mountain King](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/265402/hall-mountain-king)

This is a high production game that has two separate mechanisms:

1. Recruit trolls from a pyramid structure. Higher trolls in the pyramid require you to pay more by "bribing" the trolls beneath them. Adding the new troll to your own pyramid of trolls makes all of the trolls beneath them produce resources.
2. Use resources to dig tunnels into the mountain, unearthing statues, getting more resources, special powers, moving statues, making great halls, etc.

There are some other effects such as spells and workshops but these
are not central to the game.

The most interesting part of the game is the troll recruitment. The
cascade effect when producing is super cool and requires you to make
decisions on how to build your pyramid. Also, if a troll has unspent
resources when you produce then you do not produce those
resources. This gives players the incentive to deplete their troll
resources before producing in order to maximize production which
results in a nice cycle of production / consumption. This reduces AP a
bit and also allows you to better predict what other players might do.

This opinion isn't novel, it's the same one [Tom Vassal gave in his
review](https://boardgamegeek.com/video/250895/hall-mountain-king/hall-mountain-king-review-tom-vasel).

The least interesting part of the game is the digging mechanism. The
game uses tetris like pieces to expand your tunnel network. This gives
me a little bit of AP. Also the game is very fiddly with stones that
require axes to cut through, gaining resources, workshops, and all
kinds of other things that affect your digging decisions. By the time
the game ended I realized I really should have just been focused on
getting statues more than anything. Eric mentioned that the theme of
"Trolls moving statues to the center of the mountain" makes no sense
whatsoever.

Definitely not a buy or a play again but I recommend any designer
play the game once. Someone please make a simple game that uses the
pyramid mechanic!

### [Arena: The Contest](https://www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/219217/arena-contest)

This was a Descent-like dungeon crawler. To be honest, I can't tell
any of these apart. This could have been Imperial Assault or any
number of other games.

The one innovation I saw in this one was that the hit points of both
the characters and the monsters are noted on a track around the edge
of the board. This makes it easy to tell who is close to death.

### [Arkham Horror 3rd Ed](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/257499/arkham-horror-third-edition)

I made Eric play this one.

It has all the same mechanics of all the Arkham games. I really felt
Eldritch, MoM, and Arkham LCG had mechanics that greatly improved the
previous games but I don't see what this one adds. There is a modular
map but I think LCG and MoM do a better job by limiting vision until
the new spaces are explored. The game has story telling aspect which
is on par with what you get in Eldritch but not as rich as either MoM
or LCG.

I would say the game is probably as good as Eldritch but not any
better. Buying any of these games means committing to a zillion plays
and expansions, since most of these games hit their stride in the
second expansion. Because of this, I definitely wouldn't purchase this
game. I guess the audience for this game is the rare player who has
exhausted all the previous Arkham games?

## Friday

### [Fabled Fruit](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/203427/fabled-fruit)

Friedemann Friese seems to have a capability to endlessly create these
clever little games.

This one has players performing a worker placement action on a set of
nine cards. You either use the power of the cards to improve your hand
(sets of fruit) or to claim the set of fruit listed on the bottom of
the card. The first person to claim three cards wins.

The actions can have a bit of politics/hate in them but they weren't
overly bad and didn't trigger my aversion to this mechanic. When one
of the nine powers is exhausted it is replaced with a new power which
keeps the game fresh. Since only nine powers are available at a time
(and you have to pay to go on a spot where another play is on) AP is
very low.

This is a "Fable" game which means you can freeze the set of powers
and restart the game where you left off. This supposedly makes the
game into a legacy game. It looks like a gimmick to me.

I would play this if it hit the table but don't feel the need to own
it.

### [The Crew](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/284083/crew-quest-planet-nine)

Cooperative trick taking game.

Did you do a double-take after reading that? I sure did.

The deck contains four suits, ten values in the suit, and four cards
of a fifth trump suit. Beyond that there are a few counters used for
signalling and to keep track of the more difficult scenarios.

There are fifty missions and the first is simply to make sure a
particular player takes a particular card (e.g. the green five). There
are rules for communication that are very simple. As you progress
through the missions, the goals get more and more difficult and
require better skill, communication, and luck from the players.

It is unsurprising that by our third mission a married couple in our
group got into an argument about what card should/shouldn't have been
played. I think this game would scare a lot of people off.

I have never been good at trick taking games and would love to play
this game with a dedicated group to get better. The group would have
to be prepared to learn and get better while simultaneously being
considerate of mistakes of other players. e.g. the game would be
ruined by either a player who doesn't try hard enough or a bully.

I think Wolfe and Britta would either love this game or be completely
bored with it.

### [Super Motherload](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/162286/super-motherload)

Dig Dug the board game with deckbuilding.

The goal of this game is to dig tunnels into Mars. Minerals and
artifacts are unearthed which allows you to improve your deck.

The digging is linear which reduces AP and lets the game progress more
easily.

The deckbuilding is interesting in that each player has their own
private tableau of four face up cards that they can purchase to add to
their decks. The stacks of cards to purchase are thematic and tiered
so that better, more expensive cards are at the bottoms of the
stacks. The board is very interactive and players will often say "I
wanted to go there!" so it's nice to have another part of the game
(the cards to purchase) that is safe from interaction. Each player's
purchasable cards are different which adds a nice asymmetry to the
game.

In the end, the game felt a little long. I think it needs to be this
long to be able to purchase interesting cards but our group felt we
got everything we needed out of the game by the halfway mark.

I probably would not play this game again.

### [Quest for El Dorado](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/217372/quest-el-dorado)

This is a game I've liked for a long time. If Matthew didn't already
own it I would own a copy.

We were going to have dinner soon and had just a little time so we
decided to play a game someone already knows. I felt that Knizia
really improved the deck building mechanic in a few ways with this
game and wanted to show it to Eric.

* There is a large tableau of cards but a limit to which cards you can buy at a time. This reduces AP and also adds an interesting decision about when you want to exhaust a deck since the next player will have the opportunity to choose the replacement stack.
* The small deck and small handsize gives you more control.
* There is an abundance of single use cards. This combined with the ability to hold a card until the next turn and the visibility of the map allows for really good one use strategies. This is rare in deckbuilders.

After playing, Eric mentioned that he liked the fact that the whole
board is visible which gives players a very tangible sense of the
progress of the game.

Both Eric and Tom showed an interest in buying this game. The game now
has two expansions.

### [Liars Pirate]()

This was a playtest of an unpublished game. I don't think it's
appropriate to comment on the game in public.

## Saturday

### [Blitzkrieg](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/258210/blitzkrieg)

This is a tight two player game with the slogan "World War Two in 20
Minutes".

It has a bag drawing mechanic and allows players to participate in a
number of theaters of war. As battles are completed, victory points
accumulate until there is a winner. Players can improve the chits they
draw from the bag by placing in tech spots, increase the size of their
hand by playing in industry spots, and reduce the size of the other
player's hand via bombing.

Our game was a little skewed. Eric focused on bombing me and I didn't
sufficiently react so soon lost the game by having a zero hand size. I
assume better play would prevent this from happening.

I thought the game was tight and clever but the theme didn't really
come out. I have a hard time thinking of a world war two battle
without a map.

Eric thought the game was fun but imagined it would lose replayability
after a few plays.

I don't play many two player games so I'll definitely pass on this
one.

### [Nemesis](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/167355/nemesis)

This is a giant, semi-cooperative game that takes a group of players
through the plot of Alien. It was probably folly to try to learn and
play this at a Con but we got through most of the rules and played
enough turns to get an idea for the game.

I think it does a great job giving that nervous, claustrophobic feel
of alien. The game is hard, the aliens are practically unstoppable,
and you're not sure if you can trust your shipmates.

A couple notes:

* There needs to be an alpha player who has internalized all the rules.
* The characters are very distinct. Not only do the characters have unique starting items but they have custom decks that allow them to take unique actions.
* Slime and contamination add junk cards to your deck to slow you down. When you get contaminated you don't know whether or not your infected. You have to go to the med bay and use a "decoder" to see whether or not you're infected.
* Noise is a first place mechanic which can attract aliens adding the tension.
* Hidden objective cards allow players to choose to be either good (personal) or bad (corporate). The decision has to be made by the middle of the game.

There's a ton more stuff. I find the whole thing to be a love letter
to Alien and can't wait to get it and find a group to play it with. I
doubt the game has much replayability. I could see playing it two or
three times and that would probably be enough. There are a couple
expansions out but who knows if they are any good. They were funded by
kickstarter stretch goals.

Now I just have to wait for a reprint and hope the quality is decent.

### [Carnival of Monsters]()

We rushed this last game before I headed to the airport.

The game is a simple drafting game. There are several types of land
you draft. These land types allow you to draft monsters for victory
points. Other types of cards give you one shot and persistent cards to
tweak the rules a bit. The game has the distinctive "go broke, take a
loan" mechanic that Garfield seems to love.

The production and art of the game was excellent but no-one was wowed
by the mechanics.

Would not purchase, would not play if it hit the table.
