
# Creative Incubation 2022-03-02

Two year's later I'm back at Dice Tower West.

## Wednesday

### [Nidavellir](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/293014/nidavellir)

A fast little auction game where you get first choice in lots of
cards. You also upgrade your coins which are your bidding tokens. It
seems a bit like Ra but plays very differently. It is also somewhat
fiddly with a large assortment of bonus cards to buy but I think that
may make the game more strategic.

This definitely needs repeated plays before judging it. I'm not sure
if my group would like this game but I'd like to try it.

### [Regicide](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/307002/regicide)

A sweet little cooperative game that simulates a cooperative, raid,
boss fight and manages to do it with a normal deck of playing
cards. Very clever! It look like it's hard enough to warrant repeated
plays.

### [Space Base](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/242302/space-base)

Rolling dice, collecting money and buying cards that do more for you
for the next die roll. It has that die rolling excitment but there's
not a lot of deep thinking.

### [Fantasy Realms](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/223040/fantasy-realms)

Just barely a game. You draft the best hand of seven cards while
trying to keep other players from getting combos that are too
rediculous. This is too small and fast to ever hit the table in my
group.

## Thursday

### [Ark Nova](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/342942/ark-nova)

I think the best way to describe this is a better Terraforming
Mars. There's a giant deck of cards with all kinds of hidden synergy
but there are many mechanisms to search and cycle them so it feels
that each player has some chance of getting a winnng strategy going.

The action cycling is interesting and simple. Your actions are scaled
based on how long it has been since you've played them so you are
encouraged to not spam actions. I still ended up spamming some actions
near the end of the game because others had become useless.

Lot's of early unlocks to get more powerful actions. The card
synergies are mostly about victory points and income.

There's a lot of fiddling with a private tableau. I'm not a fan of
this. The tetris game of arranging your zoo didn't bother me much as
it was generally pretty easy to fill in locations.

Do I like this game? If I had a group that wanted to play the game a
lot and dig deeply into it, I might give it a shot. Bringing it to the
table occasionally, probably would not be fun.

### [Furnace](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/318084/furnace)

This is a quick game that has a very interesting bidding mechanc where
the winner gets a permanent ability and the losers get immediate
actions proportional to their bid. When you bid, it's not always clear
which ones you'll get.

It's so quick and fun that I'd like to get it just to see how good the
strategies/tactics can get in the game.

## Friday

## Saturday
