
# Creative Incubation 2023-03-12


Back at Dice Tower West

## Wednesday

### [Foundations of Rome](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/284189/foundations-rome)

This is a gorgeous, 3D printed game in a giant box. It was fun to play
and seems to be a revamped version of aquire. I like the way that the
center board is beautiful and everyone is spending their time looking
at it together.

Although I had a good time playing this game, I'm not compelled to do
many repeat plays.

### [Cthulhu: Death May Die](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/253344/cthulhu-death-may-die)

This takes many of the known Cthulhu coop mechanics and makes yet
another game. We played this twice, winning once, (which apparently
rarely happens) and losing once horribly.

Some of the differences:
- Players get a three action turn and the same action can be
  repeated. This sounds trivial but it really feels like it adds a lot
  of agency. Players can now do very significant things on their turn.
- Combat is much simpler. None of the pre-horror checks and the player
  and monsters exchanging blows. There character just attacks during
  combat, rolls dics, adds wounds. Monsters do the same thing at the
  end of the turn.
- Losing sanity has an amusing phobia effect but also is responsible
  for leveling up your character. Your character can become very
  powerful just before they go insane.
- Character powers feel cool and players can choose which ones to
  level up. Highest level powers are really good.

Although this game is fun I definitely don't need another coop game
and certainly not yet another Arkham coop game. This is a great play
for a convention.Q

### [Great Western Trail: Argentina](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/364011/great-western-trail-argentina)

I played this with a couple other GWT enthusiasts and there is nothing
but good things to say. It gives the the basic game of GWT while
adding a whole bunch of new and modified mechanics to make it feel
fresh. This is a must play for my group.

## Thursday

### [Heat: Pedal to the Metal](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/366013/heat-pedal-metal)

There was so much buzz about this game and the seemingly brilliant
mechanic of adding heat cards to your deck when you take driving
risks, but I came away thinking that the game was very good but I have
no interest in playing it. To be fair, there are tons of optional
rules that add lots of (seemingly) great complexity.

I think Eric summed it but best by saying something like "Racing games
put your performance in direct competition with others. When you pull
ahead, they get worse. There's no way around this." This "placements"
is obfuscated in other games where you feel like you are making
progress even if you are falling behind. I think this may be
responsible for some of the reason that I'm not enamored with this
game but there's probably something else that I can't put my finger
on.

### [The Guild of Merchant Explorers](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/350933/guild-merchant-explorers)

This was a pretty little map exploration game with an interesting
mechanic: there are a set of actions that all players perform each
round but they are in a random order. This sounds cool but in practice
it seems to mean that you really hope to get a certain order and are
often disappointed if that doesn't happen.

There is also a neat effect in that some of the actions are "special"
actions and each player has unique special actions.

The game was clever and pretty but has very little interaction with
every player staring down at their own tableaus. Some people like that
kind of single-player experience but not me.

### [Cat in the Box](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/345972/cat-box-deluxe-edition)

An interesting trick taking game where you play the value but choose
the suit. I'm attracted to this because a board is used to show all of
the played suits which may make the trick taking experience more
palatable to me. Eric gave me his copy so we can see.

### [Wonderland's War](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/227935/wonderlands-war)

This is a giant battle game that uses bag building / drawing as its
combat resolution mechanism.

The biggest criticism is that the bag building is super random and the
game has a zillion other modifiers. I think the bag drawing would be
more appropriate for a simpler game.

I was somewhat attracted to the area control mechanic of many
battles. You can choose to fight in any of the areas but if you don't
fight you can wager on who's going to win. The battles seemed
arbitrary going in so I was very poor at predicting winners. I think
this would be interesting in a game with fewer zany modifiers.

### [Return to Dark Tower](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/256680/return-dark-tower)

By all measures this should be a dumb game but the gimmicky tower
mechanics and the smart phone app made it very playable by a first
time group.

We lost because someone attacked a monster and there is know way to
know how difficult the fights will be. Ther player died which lost the
game. Seems a little strange that this can happen.

### [Pipeline](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/256730/pipeline)

I forced this game on Eric and Kurt and it was a mini disaster. We got
some of the setup wrong, we had a hard time understanding the basic
flow of the game, and both Eric and I did boneheaded first turns where
we spent half our money on upgrades. Kurt was actually doing ok. We
stopped after the first year.

I've looked up more reviews and tutorials and am considering getting
this for our group. There are lots of fun stuff about this: a nice
puzzle engine hooked up to a big economic machine.

Eric gave me perhaps the most passive aggressive line I've heard while
playing a game: "I'm fine if we keep playing but I'm just going to pass
every turn until the game ends."

